.TH "Libshare_sysapp" 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_sysapp \- 
.PP
Application state management.  

.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHAPP_LOCAL\fP   (1 << 0)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshapp_name\fP (char *app_name)"
.br
.RI "\fIStrips the absolute parent from \fIapp_name\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshpeer_t\fP * \fBshapp_init\fP (char *exec_path, char *host, int flags)"
.br
.RI "\fIInitialize the share library runtime for an application. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshapp_register\fP (\fBshpeer_t\fP *peer)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshapp_listen\fP (int tx, \fBshpeer_t\fP *peer)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshapp_account\fP (const char *username, char *passphrase, \fBshseed_t\fP **seed_p)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshapp_ident\fP (uint64_t uid, \fBshkey_t\fP **id_key_p)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshapp_session\fP (\fBshseed_t\fP *seed, \fBshkey_t\fP **sess_key_p)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshapp_account_create\fP (char *acc_name, char *acc_pass, \fBshkey_t\fP **id_key_p)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshapp_account_login\fP (char *acc_name, char *acc_pass, \fBshkey_t\fP **sess_key_p)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshapp_account_setpass\fP (char *acc_name, char *opass, char *pass)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshapp_account_remove\fP (char *acc_name, char *acc_pass)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshapp_account_info\fP (uint64_t uid, \fBshadow_t\fP *shadow, \fBshseed_t\fP *seed)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Application state management. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshpeer_t\fP* shapp_init (char * exec_path, char * host, int flags)"
.PP
Initialize the share library runtime for an application. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIexec_path\fP The process's executable path. 
.br
\fIhost\fP The host that the app runs on or NULL for localhost. 
.br
\fIflags\fP application flags 
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* shapp_name (char * app_name)"
.PP
Strips the absolute parent from \fIapp_name\fP. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
'/test/one/two' becomes 'two' 
.RE
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIapp_name\fP The running application's executable path 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
Relative filename of executable. 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
