.TH "Libshare_fsinode" 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fsinode \- 
.PP
Base file-system inode management.  

.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshfs_block_t\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe contents of a sharefs inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshfs_ino_buf\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe current stream positioned when stream-based I/O is performed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshfs_ino_t\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA sharefs filesystem inode. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef struct \fBshfs_ino_buf\fP \fBshfs_ino_buf_t\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_inode\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *parent, char *name, int mode)"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve a sharefs inode entry based on a given parent inode and path name. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_inode_load\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *parent, \fBshkey_t\fP *key)"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve a sharefs inode child entry based on a token key. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_t\fP * \fBshfs_inode_tree\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain the shfs partition associated with a particular inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_inode_root\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain the root partition inode associated with a particular inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_inode_parent\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain the parent [directory/container] inode associated with a particular inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_inode_write_entity\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *ent)"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite an entity such as a file inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshsize_t\fP \fBshfs_size\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_inode_write_block\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree, \fBshfs_block_t\fP *blk)"
.br
.RI "\fIWrites a single inode block to a sharefs filesystem journal. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_inode_read_block\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree, \fBshfs_idx_t\fP *pos, \fBshfs_block_t\fP *blk)"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve a single data block from a sharefs filesystem inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshkey_t\fP * \fBshfs_token_init\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *parent, int mode, char *fname)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns a unique key token representing an inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBshfs_filename_set\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode, char *name)"
.br
.RI "\fIAssign an inode a filename. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshfs_filename\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the filename of the inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshfs_inode_path\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshfs_inode_id\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.RI "\fIA unique hexadecimal string representing a sharefs inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshfs_inode_print\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshfs_inode_block_print\fP (\fBshfs_block_t\fP *jblk)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "uint64_t \fBshfs_crc_init\fP (\fBshfs_block_t\fP *blk)"
.br
.RI "\fICreate a inode checksum. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint64_t \fBshfs_crc\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe share library file inode's data checksum. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_block_type\fP (\fBshfs_block_t\fP *blk)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe type of an inode block. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_type\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe type of inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_block_format\fP (\fBshfs_block_t\fP *blk)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe format of an inode block. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_format\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe format of an inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_format_set\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, int format)"
.br
.RI "\fIConvert the inode to hold a different data format. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshfs_type_str\fP (int type)"
.br
.RI "\fIA string representation of an inode type. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBshfs_type_char\fP (int type)"
.br
.RI "\fIA single-character reference to an inode type. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshfs_format_str\fP (int format)"
.br
.RI "\fIA string representation of an inode format. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_block_stat\fP (\fBshfs_block_t\fP *blk, struct stat *st)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_fstat\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, struct stat *st)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain inode attribute information. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_stat\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *fs, const char *path, struct stat *st)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain inode attribute information for a path. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshkey_t\fP * \fBshfs_token\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_inode_remove\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_unlink\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *fs, char *path)"
.br
.RI "\fIClear the contents of a sharefs inode. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Base file-system inode management. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int shfs_block_format (\fBshfs_block_t\fP * blk)"
.PP
The format of an inode block. 
.SS "int shfs_block_type (\fBshfs_block_t\fP * blk)"
.PP
The type of an inode block. 
.SS "uint64_t shfs_crc (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file)"
.PP
The share library file inode's data checksum. 
.SS "uint64_t shfs_crc_init (\fBshfs_block_t\fP * blk)"
.PP
Create a inode checksum. 
.SS "char* shfs_filename (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode)"
.PP
Returns the filename of the inode. 
.SS "void shfs_filename_set (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode, char * name)"
.PP
Assign an inode a filename. 
.SS "int shfs_format (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode)"
.PP
The format of an inode. 
.SS "int shfs_format_set (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, int format)"
.PP
Convert the inode to hold a different data format. 
.SS "char* shfs_format_str (int format)"
.PP
A string representation of an inode format. 
.SS "int shfs_fstat (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, struct stat * st)"
.PP
Obtain inode attribute information. An SHERR_NOENT error occurs if inode format is not set. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIThe\fP inode to generate info for. 
.br
\fIst\fP The result info structure. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
Zero (0) on success or a libshare error code. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_inode (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * parent, char * name, int mode)"
.PP
Retrieve a sharefs inode entry based on a given parent inode and path name. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Searches for a reference to a sharefs inode labelled 'name' in the \fIparent\fP inode. 
.PP
A new inode is created if a pre-existing one is not found. 
.RE
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIparent\fP The parent inode such as a directory where the file presides. 
.br
\fIname\fP The relational pathname of the file being referenced. 
.br
\fImode\fP The type of information that this inode is referencing (SHINODE_XX). 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
A \fCshfs_node\fP is returned based on the \fCparent\fP, \fCname\fP, \fCand\fP mode specified. If one already exists it will be returned, and otherwise a new entry will be created. 
.RE
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
A new inode will be linked to the sharefs partition if it does not exist. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* shfs_inode_id (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode)"
.PP
A unique hexadecimal string representing a sharefs inode. 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_inode_load (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * parent, \fBshkey_t\fP * key)"
.PP
Retrieve a sharefs inode child entry based on a token key. 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_inode_parent (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode)"
.PP
Obtain the parent [directory/container] inode associated with a particular inode. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIinode\fP The inode in reference. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "int shfs_inode_read_block (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree, \fBshfs_idx_t\fP * pos, \fBshfs_block_t\fP * blk)"
.PP
Retrieve a single data block from a sharefs filesystem inode. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItree\fP The sharefs partition allocated by \fC\fBshfs_init()\fP\fP. 
.br
\fIinode\fP The inode whose data is being retrieved. 
.br
\fIhdr\fP A specification of where the block is location in the sharefs filesystem partition. 
.br
\fIinode\fP The inode block data to be filled in. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
Returns 0 on success and a SHERR_XXX on failure. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_inode_root (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode)"
.PP
Obtain the root partition inode associated with a particular inode. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIinode\fP The inode in reference. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshfs_t\fP* shfs_inode_tree (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode)"
.PP
Obtain the shfs partition associated with a particular inode. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIinode\fP The inode in reference. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "int shfs_inode_write_block (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree, \fBshfs_block_t\fP * blk)"
.PP
Writes a single inode block to a sharefs filesystem journal. 
.SS "int shfs_inode_write_entity (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * ent)"
.PP
Write an entity such as a file inode. 
.SS "int shfs_stat (\fBshfs_t\fP * fs, const char * path, struct stat * st)"
.PP
Obtain inode attribute information for a path. 
.SS "\fBshkey_t\fP* shfs_token_init (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * parent, int mode, char * fname)"
.PP
Returns a unique key token representing an inode. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIparent\fP The parent inode of the inode being referenced. 
.RE
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
free the returned key with shkey_free() 
.RE
.PP

.SS "int shfs_type (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode)"
.PP
The type of inode. 
.SS "char shfs_type_char (int type)"
.PP
A single-character reference to an inode type. 
.SS "char* shfs_type_str (int type)"
.PP
A string representation of an inode type. 
.SS "int shfs_unlink (\fBshfs_t\fP * fs, char * path)"
.PP
Clear the contents of a sharefs inode. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
