.TH "Libshare_fsref" 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fsref \- 
.PP
libhshare filesystem inode refary I/O functionality.  

.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHFS_MAX_REFERENCE_HIERARCHY\fP   ( (SHFS_BLOCK_DATA_SIZE - sizeof(\fBshpeer_t\fP)) / sizeof(\fBshkey_t\fP) )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_ref_read\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff)"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve information about a reference share-fs inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_ref_write\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff)"
.br
.RI "\fICreate a reference to another share-fs inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_ref_set\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP *ref_file)"
.br
.RI "\fICreate a reference to another share-fs inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_ref_get\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshfs_t\fP **ref_fs_p, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP **ref_file_p)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain a reference to another share-fs inode. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
libhshare filesystem inode refary I/O functionality. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int shfs_ref_get (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, \fBshfs_t\fP ** ref_fs_p, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP ** ref_file_p)"
.PP
Obtain a reference to another share-fs inode. 
.SS "int shfs_ref_read (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, \fBshbuf_t\fP * buff)"
.PP
Retrieve information about a reference share-fs inode. 
.SS "int shfs_ref_set (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP * ref_file)"
.PP
Create a reference to another share-fs inode. 
.SS "int shfs_ref_write (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, \fBshbuf_t\fP * buff)"
.PP
Create a reference to another share-fs inode. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
