.TH "JSON text parser and generator." 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
JSON text parser and generator. \- 
.PP
JSON text parser and generator.  

.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshjson_t\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBDBL_EPSILON\fP   2.2204460492503131E-16"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBINT_MAX\fP   0x7FFF/0x7FFFFFFF"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBINT_MIN\fP   ((int) 0x8000/0x80000000)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBshjson_False\fP   0"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBshjson_True\fP   1"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBshjson_NULL\fP   2"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBshjson_Number\fP   3"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBshjson_String\fP   4"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBshjson_Array\fP   5"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBshjson_Object\fP   6"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBshjson_IsReference\fP   256"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshjson_print\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *json)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain a text representation of the \fCjson\fP hiearchy in JSON format. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshjson_str\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *json, char *name, char *def_str)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain an allocated string value from a JSON object. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshjson_astr\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *json, char *name, char *def_str)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain an un-allocated string value from a JSON object. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshjson_t\fP * \fBshjson_str_add\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *tree, char *name, char *val)"
.br
.RI "\fIAdd a string value to a JSON object or array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBshjson_free\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP **tree_p)"
.br
.RI "\fIDe-allocates memory associated with a JSON hiearchy. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBshjson_num\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *json, char *name, double def_d)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain a number value from a JSON object. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshjson_t\fP * \fBshjson_num_add\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *tree, char *name, double num)"
.br
.RI "\fIAdd a number value to a JSON object or array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshjson_t\fP * \fBshjson_init\fP (char *json_str)"
.br
.RI "\fICreate a new JSON tree hierarchy. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshjson_t\fP * \fBshjson_array_add\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *tree, char *name)"
.br
.RI "\fICreate a new JSON node at the end of an array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshjson_array_str\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *json, char *name, int idx)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain an allocated string value from an array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshjson_array_astr\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *json, char *name, int idx)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain an un-allocated string value from an array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBshjson_array_num\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *json, char *name, int idx)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain a number value from an array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshjson_t\fP * \fBshjson_obj\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *json, char *name)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBshjson_strlen\fP (\fBshjson_t\fP *json, char *name)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
JSON text parser and generator. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshjson_t\fP* shjson_array_add (\fBshjson_t\fP * tree, char * name)"
.PP
Create a new JSON node at the end of an array. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIjson\fP The JSON object containing the array. 
.br
\fIname\fP The name of the array in the JSON object. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
A new JSON node attachd to the array. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* shjson_array_astr (\fBshjson_t\fP * json, char * name, int idx)"
.PP
Obtain an un-allocated string value from an array. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIjson\fP The JSON object containing the array. 
.br
\fIname\fP The name of the array in the JSON object. 
.br
\fIidx\fP The index number of the JSON node in the array. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The string value contained in the array's node index. 
.RE
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Do not free the string pointer returned. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "double shjson_array_num (\fBshjson_t\fP * json, char * name, int idx)"
.PP
Obtain a number value from an array. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIjson\fP The JSON object containing the array. 
.br
\fIname\fP The name of the array in the JSON object. 
.br
\fIidx\fP The index number of the JSON node in the array. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The numeric value contained in the array's node index. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* shjson_array_str (\fBshjson_t\fP * json, char * name, int idx)"
.PP
Obtain an allocated string value from an array. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIjson\fP The JSON object containing the array. 
.br
\fIname\fP The name of the array in the JSON object. 
.br
\fIidx\fP The index number of the JSON node in the array. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The string value contained in the array's node index. 
.RE
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
The string pointer returned must be de-allocated. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* shjson_astr (\fBshjson_t\fP * json, char * name, char * def_str)"
.PP
Obtain an un-allocated string value from a JSON object. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItree\fP The JSON object containing the string value. 
.br
\fIname\fP The name of the string JSON node. 
.br
\fIdef_str\fP The default string value if the JSON node does not exist. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The string value contained in the JSON node. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "void shjson_free (\fBshjson_t\fP ** tree_p)"
.PP
De-allocates memory associated with a JSON hiearchy. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItree_p\fP A reference to the JSON hierarchy. 
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshjson_init()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshjson_t\fP* shjson_init (char * json_str)"
.PP
Create a new JSON tree hierarchy. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIjson_str\fP A JSON formatted text string or NULL. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
A new JSON object if \fCjson_str\fP is null or a full JSON node hierarchy otherwise. 
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshjson_print\fP 
.PP
\fBshjson_free\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "double shjson_num (\fBshjson_t\fP * json, char * name, double def_d)"
.PP
Obtain a number value from a JSON object. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItree\fP The JSON object containing the number value. 
.br
\fIname\fP The name of the number JSON node. 
.br
\fIdef_d\fP The default number value if the JSON node does not exist. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The number value contained in the JSON node. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshjson_t\fP* shjson_num_add (\fBshjson_t\fP * tree, char * name, double num)"
.PP
Add a number value to a JSON object or array. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItree\fP The JSON object or array to add the number value. 
.br
\fIname\fP The name of the number JSON node or NULL if \fCtree\fP is an array. 
.br
\fIidx\fP The number value to store in the new JSON node. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The new JSON node containing the number value. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshjson_t\fP* shjson_obj (\fBshjson_t\fP * json, char * name)"\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
A JSON object contained inside another object. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* shjson_print (\fBshjson_t\fP * json)"
.PP
Obtain a text representation of the \fCjson\fP hiearchy in JSON format. \fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
An allocated string in JSON format. 
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshjson_init()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "char* shjson_str (\fBshjson_t\fP * json, char * name, char * def_str)"
.PP
Obtain an allocated string value from a JSON object. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItree\fP The JSON object containing the string value. 
.br
\fIname\fP The name of the string JSON node. 
.br
\fIdef_str\fP The default string value if the JSON node does not exist. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The string value contained in the JSON node. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshjson_t\fP* shjson_str_add (\fBshjson_t\fP * tree, char * name, char * val)"
.PP
Add a string value to a JSON object or array. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItree\fP The JSON object containing the string value. 
.br
\fIname\fP The name of the string JSON node. 
.br
\fIval\fP The string value to store in the new JSON node. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The new JSON node containing the string value. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "size_t shjson_strlen (\fBshjson_t\fP * json, char * name)"\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The string length of a JSON object node. 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
