.TH "Libshare_fsdir" 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fsdir \- 
.PP
Directory container inode management.  

.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshfs_dir_t\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef struct \fBshfs_dir_t\fP \fBshfs_dir_t\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef \fBshfs_dir_t\fP * \fBSHDIR\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_dir_base\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe base SHINODE_PARTITION type inode for a sharefs partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_dir_cwd\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe current working inode directory for a sharefs partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_dir_parent\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_dir_entry\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode, char *fname)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturn an inode from a directory inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_dir_find\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree, char *path)"
.br
.RI "\fILocate a directory inode on a sharefs partition by an absolute pathname. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_dir_t\fP * \fBshfs_opendir\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *fs, char *path)"
.br
.RI "\fIOpen a directory to be listed. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_dirent_t\fP * \fBshfs_readdir\fP (\fBshfs_dir_t\fP *dir)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_closedir\fP (\fBshfs_dir_t\fP *dir)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_chroot\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *fs, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP *dir)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_chroot_path\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *fs, char *path)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_dir_remove\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *dir)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Directory container inode management. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_dir_base (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree)"
.PP
The base SHINODE_PARTITION type inode for a sharefs partition. 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_dir_cwd (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree)"
.PP
The current working inode directory for a sharefs partition. 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_dir_entry (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode, char * fname)"
.PP
Return an inode from a directory inode. 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_dir_find (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree, char * path)"
.PP
Locate a directory inode on a sharefs partition by an absolute pathname. 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_dir_parent (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode)"\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The SHINODE_DIRECTORY parent of an inode. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshfs_dir_t\fP* shfs_opendir (\fBshfs_t\fP * fs, char * path)"
.PP
Open a directory to be listed. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIfs\fP The sharefs partition to use or NULL for default. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
A resource for tracking a directory list. 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
