.TH "Libshare_fsrev" 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fsrev \- 
.PP
revision repository  

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_init\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_clear\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_rev_branch_resolve\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *repo, char *name)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain a revision inode from a branch name. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_rev_tag_resolve\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *repo, char *name)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain a revision inode from a tag name. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_rev_base\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *repo)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain the current committed revision. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_ref_read\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, char *group, char *name, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_ref_write\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, char *group, char *name, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBshfs_rev_prev\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *rev)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_delta_read\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *rev, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_delta_write\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *rev, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "const char * \fBshfs_rev_desc_get\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *rev)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_commit\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP **rev_p)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_cat\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshkey_t\fP *rev_key, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP **rev_p)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_delta\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshbuf_t\fP *diff_buff)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain a binary delta containing the differences between the current file's data-content and the last committed revision's data-content. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_branch\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *repo, char *name, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP *rev)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_tag\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *repo, char *name, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP *rev)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_switch\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, char *ref_name, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP **rev_p)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_revert\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_checkout\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshkey_t\fP *key, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP **rev_p)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_rev_diff\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshkey_t\fP *rev_key, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBshfs_rev_desc_set\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *rev, char *desc)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
revision repository 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_rev_base (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * repo)"
.PP
Obtain the current committed revision. 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_rev_branch_resolve (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * repo, char * name)"
.PP
Obtain a revision inode from a branch name. 
.SS "int shfs_rev_delta (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, \fBshbuf_t\fP * diff_buff)"
.PP
Obtain a binary delta containing the differences between the current file's data-content and the last committed revision's data-content. 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* shfs_rev_tag_resolve (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * repo, char * name)"
.PP
Obtain a revision inode from a tag name. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
