.TH "Libshare_fspartition" 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fspartition \- 
.PP
The libshare 'share-fs' file-system partition management.  

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_t\fP * \fBshfs_init\fP (\fBshpeer_t\fP *peer)"
.br
.RI "\fICreates a reference to a sharefs filesystem. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBshfs_free\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP **tree_p)"
.br
.RI "\fIFree a reference to a sharefs partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshkey_t\fP * \fBshfs_partition_id\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain the partition id for a sharefs partition. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
The libshare 'share-fs' file-system partition management. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void shfs_free (\fBshfs_t\fP ** tree_p)"
.PP
Free a reference to a sharefs partition. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItree_p\fP A reference to the sharefs partition instance to free. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBshkeystore.c\fP.
.SS "\fBshfs_t\fP* shfs_init (\fBshpeer_t\fP * peer)"
.PP
Creates a reference to a sharefs filesystem. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIpeer\fP A local or remote reference to a sharefs partition. \fIflags\fP A combination of SHFS_PARTITION_XXX flags. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshfs_t\fP A share partition associated with the peer specified or the local default partition if a NULL peer is specified. 
.RE
.PP
\fBTodo\fP
.RS 4
write local file '/system/version' with current version. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBshkeystore.c\fP.
.SS "\fBshkey_t\fP* shfs_partition_id (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree)"
.PP
Obtain the partition id for a sharefs partition. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
The local parition will always return zero (0). 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
