.TH "The libshare memory buffer pool allocation utilities." 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
The libshare memory buffer pool allocation utilities. \- 
.PP
Memory Buffer Pools.  

.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshpool_t\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA memory pool. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef struct \fBshpool_t\fP \fBshpool_t\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA memory pool. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshpool_t\fP * \fBshpool_init\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIInitializes a new memory pool instance. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBshpool_size\fP (\fBshpool_t\fP *pool)"
.br
.RI "\fICalculates the number of avaiable \fBshbuf_t\fP memory buffer contained in the \fBshpool_t\fP memory pool. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBshpool_grow\fP (\fBshpool_t\fP *pool)"
.br
.RI "\fIIncreases the size of the memory pool. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshbuf_t\fP * \fBshpool_get\fP (\fBshpool_t\fP *pool)"
.br
.RI "\fIGet's the next available memory buffer from a pool. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshbuf_t\fP * \fBshpool_get_index\fP (\fBshpool_t\fP *pool, int index)"
.br
.RI "\fIGet's a specific \fBshbuf_t\fP memory buffer by index number. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBshpool_put\fP (\fBshpool_t\fP *pool, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff)"
.br
.RI "\fIPut's a memory buffer into a pool. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBshpool_free\fP (\fBshpool_t\fP **pool_p)"
.br
.RI "\fIFree's the resources associated with a memory pool. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Memory Buffer Pools. 
.SH "Typedef Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "typedef struct \fBshpool_t\fP \fBshpool_t\fP"
.PP
A memory pool. 
.PP
Definition at line 331 of file shmem.h.
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void shpool_free (\fBshpool_t\fP ** pool_p)"
.PP
Free's the resources associated with a memory pool. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIpool_p\fP A reference to an allocated \fBpool_t\fP memory pool. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshbuf_t\fP* shpool_get (\fBshpool_t\fP * pool)"
.PP
Get's the next available memory buffer from a pool. \fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshpool_put()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshbuf_t\fP* shpool_get_index (\fBshpool_t\fP * pool, int index)"
.PP
Get's a specific \fBshbuf_t\fP memory buffer by index number. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIindex\fP The index number of the memory buffer. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The \fBshbuf_t\fP memory buffer associated with the index or NULL if none exist. 
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshpool_size()\fP; 
.RE
.PP

.SS "void shpool_grow (\fBshpool_t\fP * pool)"
.PP
Increases the size of the memory pool. \fBBug\fP
.RS 4
smaller incremental reallocs have been known to fail in glibc 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshpool_t\fP* shpool_init (void)"
.PP
Initializes a new memory pool instance. \fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
A \fBshpool_t\fP memory pool of \fBshbuf_t\fP memory buffers. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "void shpool_put (\fBshpool_t\fP * pool, \fBshbuf_t\fP * buff)"
.PP
Put's a memory buffer into a pool. 
.SS "size_t shpool_size (\fBshpool_t\fP * pool)"
.PP
Calculates the number of avaiable \fBshbuf_t\fP memory buffer contained in the \fBshpool_t\fP memory pool. \fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshpool_get_index()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
