.TH "Libshare_fsmeta" 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fsmeta \- 
.PP
Inode supplemental meta information.  

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_meta\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP *ent, \fBshmeta_t\fP **val_p)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain a reference to the meta definition hashmap associated with the inode entry. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_meta_save\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP *ent, \fBshmeta_t\fP *h)"
.br
.RI "\fIFlush the inode's meta map to disk. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "const char * \fBshfs_meta_get\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, char *def)"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve a SHMETA_XX meta defintion from a share library file. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_meta_perm\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, char *def, \fBshkey_t\fP *user)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_meta_set\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, char *def, char *value)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_sig_verify\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshkey_t\fP *peer_key)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Inode supplemental meta information. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int shfs_meta (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP * ent, \fBshmeta_t\fP ** val_p)"
.PP
Obtain a reference to the meta definition hashmap associated with the inode entry. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
The \fC\fBshfs_ino_t\fP\fP inode will cache the hashmap reference. 
.RE
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIent\fP The inode entry. 
.br
\fIval_p\fP A memory reference to the meta definition hashmap being filled in. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "const char* shfs_meta_get (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, char * def)"
.PP
Retrieve a SHMETA_XX meta defintion from a share library file. 
.SS "int shfs_meta_save (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP * ent, \fBshmeta_t\fP * h)"
.PP
Flush the inode's meta map to disk. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIThe\fP inode associated with the meta map. 
.br
\fIval\fP The meta map to store to disk. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
A zero (0) on success and a negative one (-1) on failure. 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
