.TH "shfs_ino_t" 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shfs_ino_t \- 
.PP
A sharefs filesystem inode.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shfs.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_block_t\fP \fBblk\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA 2k block of data stored on the sharefs partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_t\fP * \fBtree\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe sharefs partition this inode is a part of. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBparent\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe parent inode containing this inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBbase\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe root directory inode of the partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshmeta_t\fP * \fBcmeta\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIInode entities that are contained inside this [directory] inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshmeta_t\fP * \fBmeta\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPrimary meta definitions associated with the inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned char * \fBpool\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIType-specific allocated memory pool for inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_buf_t\fP \fBstream\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
A sharefs filesystem inode. 
.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
.PP
\fBshkeystore.c\fP.
.PP
Definition at line 513 of file shfs.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "struct \fBshfs_ino_t\fP* \fBshfs_ino_t::base\fP\fC [read]\fP"
.PP
The root directory inode of the partition. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
The root inode is self-circular for the root inode. 
.PP
This variable is not saved as part of the fileystem inode. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 538 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_block_t\fP \fBshfs_ino_t::blk\fP"
.PP
A 2k block of data stored on the sharefs partition. 
.PP
Definition at line 519 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshmeta_t\fP* \fBshfs_ino_t::cmeta\fP"
.PP
Inode entities that are contained inside this [directory] inode. 
.PP
Definition at line 543 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshmeta_t\fP* \fBshfs_ino_t::meta\fP"
.PP
Primary meta definitions associated with the inode. 
.PP
Definition at line 548 of file shfs.h.
.SS "struct \fBshfs_ino_t\fP* \fBshfs_ino_t::parent\fP\fC [read]\fP"
.PP
The parent inode containing this inode. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
The root inode will have a parent of NULL. 
.PP
This variable is not saved as part of the fileystem inode. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 531 of file shfs.h.
.SS "unsigned char* \fBshfs_ino_t::pool\fP"
.PP
Type-specific allocated memory pool for inode. 
.PP
Definition at line 553 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_t\fP* \fBshfs_ino_t::tree\fP"
.PP
The sharefs partition this inode is a part of. 
.PP
Definition at line 524 of file shfs.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
