.TH "shpeer_t" 3 "20 Mar 2015" "Version 2.24" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shpeer_t \- 
.PP
A local or remote reference to a libshare runtime enabled application.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shpeer.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshpeer_addr_t\fP \fBaddr\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA IP 4/6 network address. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBlabel\fP [16]"
.br
.RI "\fIA label identifying a perspective view of the peer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBgroup\fP [16]"
.br
.RI "\fIA label identifying a sub-group of this peer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBuid\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe client user ID that is associated with the peer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBarch\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIArchitecture of local machine for private key generation. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBtype\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA SHNET_PEER_XX type. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshpeer_key_t\fP \fBkey\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIKey references to this peer. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
A local or remote reference to a libshare runtime enabled application. 

 
 See the libshare_net.3 API man page for ESP protocol network operations.
  
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Addresses are stored in network byte order. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
.PP
\fBshkeystore.c\fP.
.PP
Definition at line 120 of file shpeer.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshpeer_addr_t\fP \fBshpeer_t::addr\fP"
.PP
A IP 4/6 network address. 
.PP
Definition at line 125 of file shpeer.h.
.SS "uint32_t \fBshpeer_t::arch\fP"
.PP
Architecture of local machine for private key generation. 
.PP
Definition at line 145 of file shpeer.h.
.SS "char \fBshpeer_t::group\fP[16]"
.PP
A label identifying a sub-group of this peer. 
.PP
Definition at line 135 of file shpeer.h.
.SS "\fBshpeer_key_t\fP \fBshpeer_t::key\fP"
.PP
Key references to this peer. 
.PP
Definition at line 155 of file shpeer.h.
.SS "char \fBshpeer_t::label\fP[16]"
.PP
A label identifying a perspective view of the peer. 
.PP
Definition at line 130 of file shpeer.h.
.SS "uint32_t \fBshpeer_t::type\fP"
.PP
A SHNET_PEER_XX type. 
.PP
Definition at line 150 of file shpeer.h.
.SS "uint32_t \fBshpeer_t::uid\fP"
.PP
The client user ID that is associated with the peer. 
.PP
Definition at line 140 of file shpeer.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
