<pre>
  SIP: 27
  Layer: Standard (soft fork)
  Title: Trust Extended Transaction
	Author: Brian Burrell < support@neo-natura.com >
  Status: Proposed
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2018-09-28
</pre>
==Abstract==

This document specifies proposed changes to the Shioncoin Virtual Currency servic's transaction capabilities in order to provide temporary transfer of SHC coins, a SHC asset, or a SHC license. 

==Motivation==

Sharecoin implementation currently relies on committed transaction, and therefore does not inherently provide mechanics for dividend distribution of coins or limited time-period transfer of extended transactions.

This document proposes a mechanism to temporarily hold coins, assets, and licenses. In adddition, held coins may be distributed to a destination coino address on a dividend basis.

==Specification==

The Trust structure is composed of the following;

A "Trust Type" which is defined as "coin", "asset", or "license".

A "Trust Coin Value" which records the total coin value to dispense to a destination address.

A "Trust Expiration Date" which specifies the maximum life-time of the trust.

A "Trust Dividend Value" which specifies a coin value that is distributed as a dividend.

A "Trust Dividend Span" which specifies how often that the devidend is distributed.

A "Trust Fee" whic specifies a on-eitme fee paid to the trustee based on the asociated certificate fee.

=== Trust Channel ===

The Trust Channel is embedded into a Channel Extended Transaction. The channel functions as a temporary holding platform for information.

A trust is given a life-span determined by it's expiration time. the maximum life-span is 72 years. This life-span is used to base calculations on, and such a trust transaction is considered valid until all pending assets are liquidated or the trustee performs a trust remove tx operation.

A trust may be canceled by the owner/trustee, at which point all remaining assets are transferred back to the sender's refund address, and any pending transactions not finalized become void.

The sender assigns a refund coin address to the trust tx, and otherwise is not specifically identified as part of the contract.

A trustee must be a pre-registered certificate coin address. it can be appointed to one-self or another entity. The trustee is paid an optional fee based on this certificate's fee.

The benefactor may be the sender, trustee, or otherwise. the benefactor is represented by a single coin address.

Creating a trust against a self-owned cert will cause instant activation. otherwise, the trustee must activate the trust by signing a multi-sig tx which in turn creates a set of non-finalized transactions that fulfill the agreement of the trust. The trustee is primarily reponsible for distributing these non-finalized transactions on the network.

A trust tx that is not activated after 24 hours is considered void, and any transfer of assets to the trustee is reverted.

A "coin" trust either holds currency until expiration and/or creates a set of transactions that sends up to <dividend-value> every <dividend-span> seconds until the entirety of the coin trust is dissolved.

The "asset" and "license" trusts transfer control of an asset or license over to the trustee. upon expiration of the trust tx, control is transferred to the assigned benefactor.

===Examples===

An example of a trust is a "vault" which simply sends back coins that are sent to it after a given time-span.

> shc cert.new "" "Vault Certificate"
cert {
	hash : <cert-hash>
}
> shc trust.vault "" <cert-hash> coin 1 172800 
trust {
	type : "coin",
	value : 1,
	expire : <two days>
}

==Compatibility==

A Trust Channel transaction relies on the Channel Extended Transaction.

All "half signed" multi-sig tx's pushed onto the network are relayed to all nodes.

