<pre>
  SIP: 21
  Layer: Core
  Title: The Spring Matrix 
  Author: Brian Burrell <bburrell@neo-natura.com>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/neonatura/shioncoin/doc/standards/Comments:sip21.wiki
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2018-12-29
  License: PD
</pre>
==Abstract==

This SIP describes a pre-compiled bitvector matrix which encapsulates a set of locations, and how to access it's components.

The Spring Matrix is composed of over one million public latitude/longitude geodetic locations. These locations are stored as bitvectors in a set of cells comprsing the matrix. 

All operations against the matrix consist of removing bitvector values, and therefore no new information will ever be generated.

==Motivation==

The purpose of the Spring Matrix is to provide a low yielding reward for the identification of a particular geodetic location currently present in the Spring Matrix. 

All of the locations in the Spring Matrix have been predefined. 

Claiming a location will remove the bitvector values associated with it's latitude and longitude permanently from the Spring Matrix. The degree of hardness naturally increases as a smaller pool of places become available to claim.

A single coin is rewarded for successfully identifying a location in the Spring Matrix. This value is arbitrarily low in order to avoid interfering with the economics of the mining ecosystem. 

==Specification==

The act of claiming a reward is performed by generating a "identification stamp". The location being claimed has no relevance to the physical location of the user claiming it, although additional constraints can be applied (i.e. for VR / geocaching applications) if desired.

When a location is "claimed" by an identification stamp transaction, the underlying bitvector value is removed from the Spring Matrix. The removal of a bitvector will prevent the same location from being claimed multiple times, and may also prohibit other locations that rely on aspects of the bitvector from being claimed as well.  

When a identification transaction is received containing a particular geodetic location, and that geodetic location is currently present in the Spring Matrix, then the next block will deduct a single coin from the block reward and generate a supplemental transaction containing a single coin output to the coin address specified in the identification transaction.

== Copyright ==

This document is placed in the public domain.
