<pre class="western">  SIP: 25
  Layer: Core
  Title: Certified Asset
  Author: Neo Natura &lt; support@neo-natura.com &gt;
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2019-01-26</pre>
==Abstract== 
This SIP defines a new transaction called a &quot;Asset&quot;. A
asset is derived from an already established certificate. 

== Motivation ==
The asset extended transaction allows for additional notations to
be appended to a certificate. These notations typically reference a
code of some arbitrary context. This functionality provides for a
method to associate additional attributes to the underlying meaning
of the certificate. 

==Specifications== 
An asset contains a title of up to 135 characters, an coin address
of the creator, a parent chain certificate hash, and a data payload.
Up to 135 characters may be used for the payload. 

An asset will include the geodetic location of the node which
generated the transaction unless the node is configured otherwise.
Assets provide a method to attach auxiliary information to a
certificate. The asset may itself be a reference (such as a barcode)
or contain authority/proprietary information by itself. 

An asset will expire when the underlying certificate expires
(which is after 48 years). 

=== Asset Fee ===
Asset transaction initially cost around 8 SHC and goes down over
time. 

=== Asset Creation ===
The extended transaction format is:<br/>
OP_EXT_NEW &lt;&lt;
OP_N(OP_ASSET) &lt;&lt; OP_HASH160 &lt;&lt; [ASSET HASH] &lt;&lt;
OP_2DROP
Where [ASSET HASH] is the hash of the underlying asset extended
transaction payload.
The certificate being referenced by the asset need only exist, and
does not need to be owned by the asset creator.
=== Asset Update ===
The extended transaction format is:<br/>
OP_EXT_UPDATE &lt;&lt;
OP_N(OP_ASSET) &lt;&lt; OP_HASH160 &lt;&lt; [ASSET HASH] &lt;&lt;
OP_2DROP
Where [ASSET HASH] is the hash of the underlying asset extended
transaction payload.
You must be the creator of the asset in order to update it. Only
the asset’s payload may be updated. 

=== Asset Removal ===
The extended transaction format is:<br/>
OP_EXT_REMOVE &lt;&lt;
OP_N(OP_ASSET) &lt;&lt; OP_HASH160 &lt;&lt; [ASSET HASH] &lt;&lt;
OP_2DROP
Where [ASSET HASH] is the hash of the underlying asset extended
transaction payload.
You must be the creator of the asset in order to remove it.
