<pre class="western">  SIP: 22
  Layer: Core
  Title: Alternate Blockchain (Extended Transaction)
  Author: Brian Burrell &lt; support@neo-natura.com &gt;
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2018-10-07</pre>
==Abstract== 
The Colored Alternate Blockchain provides a method of providing
supplemental block-chains embedded into the main Shioncoin blockchain
which can have their own custom parameters. Each alternate blockchain
is assigned a unique 128-bit RGBA color code derived from the label
of the chain. Sending funds and generating new blocks are mined in a
similar fashion to regular blocks, but have a reduced minimum
difficulty in order to accommodate CPU mining. 

== Motivation == 
The colored alternate block-chain is intended to provide a sub-set
of individual chained blocks which can be used for an alternate
purpose or capability then the primary Shioncoin Blockchain. 

== Implementation == 
Each colored block-chain has a unique genesis block and a
subsequent set of chained blocks. The blocks contain transactions in
a typical fashion and structure. The transactions may embed an
additional payload, depending on their version, which can be used for
extension or auxiliary purposes. When a chain is created it can have
custom parameters applied to it in relation to how it behaves. See
"Blockchain Parameters" below for more information. 

The "alternate block" structure is composed of the
typical "version", "previous block hash", "merkle
root hash", "time", "difficulty bits", and
"nonce". The "alternate transaction structure is
composed of the typical "version", "inputs",
"outputs", and "lock time". In addition, the
alternate transaction structure will serialize an additional unsigned
character vector when the transaction version is higher than one (1).
The AltChain Extended Transaction, use to encapsulate color
alt-chains on the Shioncoin blockchain, is composed of a flag
bitvector, the hash of the colored chain, a alternate block
structure, and a set of alternate transactions. 

A OP_EXT_NEW operative is performed in order to establish a new
colored alt-chain. The alternate block will include a single coinbase
which has optional blockchain parameters and a single output to null
(OP_RETURN) with the initial reward value. The genesis block will
always have a difficulty of (~uint256 &gt;&gt; 12). The script for
the extended transaction output is "OP_EXT_NEW OP_ALTCHAIN hash
OP_2DROP OP_RETURN 0". 

Subsequent blocks on the alt-chain use the OP_EXT_UPDATE script
operative. The script for the extended transaction output is
"OP_EXT_UPDATE OP_ALTCHAIN hash OP_2DROP OP_RETURN 0". 

An alternate chain extended transaction fee of 0.001 SHC is
applied to both the OP_EXT_NEW and OP_EXT_UPDATE outputs. Since the
output is null (OP_RETURN), the SHC coins are burned in the process. 

=== Blockchain Parameters === 
The parameters for a block-chain are stored in a coinbase output
of the genesis block for the alt-chain. 

The format of the script is "OP_RETURN OP_0 [ ].." with
a prefix of "OP_RETURN OP_0" and a sequence of small number
pairs which represent the parameter mode and value. 

Here is a table of the parameters and there corresponding values. 

<pre class="western">01 DIFFICULTY
The minimum mining difficulty to generate a new block.
note: Genesis Block is always &gt;&gt; 12
note: A value less than "4" is recommended for CPU mining.
        X = (~uint256 &gt;&gt; (X+10))
        1 = (~uint256 &gt;&gt; 11)
        2 = (~uint256 &gt;&gt; 12) (etc)
        15 = (~uint256 &gt;&gt; 25)
02 BLOCKTARGET (seconds)
The target time-span in between new block generation.
        1 = 60
        2 = 120 (etc)
        15 = &lt;15 minutes&gt;
03 MATURITY (blocks)
The number of blocks before a coinbase is spendable.
note: The maximum allowed value for this mode is "8".
        1 = 60
        2 = 120 (etc)
        8 = 480
04 REWARDBASE
The base coin value of new block rewards. This is halved based on the REWARDHALF parameter.
note: The maximum allowed value for this mode is "10".
        X = (2 ^ X)
        1 = 1 COIN
        2 = 2 (etc)
        3 = 4
        4 = 8
        5 = 16
        6 = 32
        7 = 64
        8 = 128
        9 = 256
        10 = 512
05 REWARDHALF
The number of blocks before the REWARDBASE is halved.
        X = (1000 * X)
        1 = 1000
        12 = 12000
        15 = 15000
06 TXFEE
The minimum tx-fee to enforce for transactions.
note: The maximum allowed value for this mode is "8".
        X = (10 ^ X)/COIN
        0 = 0
        1 = 10 (0.0000001)
        2 = 100 (0.000001)
        3 = 1000 (0.00001000)
        4 = 10000 (etc)
        5 = 100000 (0.001)
        6 = 1000000 (0.01)
        7 = 10000000 (0.1)
        8 = 100000000 (1)</pre>
== Usage == 

Blocks generated on the colored alt-chains are created using a CPU
miner by the server node. In addition, specialty (specific color)
nodes can be created which provide access to stratum facilities.
Sending a transaction on an alt-chain typically consists of creating
a block along with the transaction. The transactions are still pooled
in the event of a chain reorganization. 

A transaction will typically provide a funds transfer to another
individual, a funds transfer to several individuals, or submitting a
data payload. 

Transactions containing a data payload are meant to be specific to
the particular color of the alt-chain. By proving a custom set of
standards to the data content published, a rule set can be enforced
on the underlying data permitted to provide a common method of
processing the data. 

== Examples == 
Here is an example output script of a alternate blockchain
extended transaction which contains a genesis block for a colored
altchain with block-chain parameters defined as having a difficulty
of "~uint256 &gt;&gt; 12" and and block target of 120
blocks: 

OP_RETURN OP_0 OP_1 OP_2 OP_2 OP_2 

The "OP_1 OP_2" pair indicates a difficulty of
"(~uint256 &gt;&gt; 12)" and the "OP_2 OP_2" pair
indicates a block target of 120 seconds. 

