<pre class="western">  SIP: 26
  Layer: Core
  Title: Executable SEXE Class (ref SIP7)
  Author: Neo Natura &lt; support@neo-natura.com &gt;
  Status: Extendable
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2018-12-15</pre>
== Abstract == 
This SIP defines a new Executable Extended Transaction that is
used in order to provide smart-contract capabilities. The executable
extended transaction consists of publishing a SEXE class and
subsequent calls to methods in that class. A persistent data storage
mechanism is provided which is synchronized between all nodes. 

== Motivation == 
The executable extended transaction provides the capability to
create programs which can define rules for a system of operations
that deliver consistent results among all participants. 

== Examples == 
One of the most popular examples of a smart-contract program is
the Token asset. A token tracks an arbitrary metric that can be
defined as having a intrinsic value based of the intended purpose of
it's use. 

==Specification== 
The SEXE programming language is based off of the LUA scripting
language. The libshare run-time suite is used in order to provide the
development environment. 

The executable extended transaction consists of the generation of
a new SEXE class on the blockchain or calling a method from a
published class. 

The SEXE class is provided a permanent data storage area in order
to update variables based on the functions called. 

The SEXE class can require a SHC coin payment in order to perform
an operation. Class method calls that do not require a change to the
permanent data storage area do not require a payment. The minimum fee
for a class call which modifies the data storage area is 0.00001 SHC.
The maximum size permitted fora SEXE class published on the shioncoin
blockchain is 780000 bytes.
When a class calls is received by a node the basic integrity is
validated. The actual execution of the call will only occur on a 'as
needed' basis, in that, a user must specifically require the use of a
SEXE class before any preceding operations are performed. 

=== Publishing SEXE Class ===
The extended transaction operation OP_EXT_NEW is used in order to
publish a new SEXE class onto the blockchain. The underlying payload
containing the LUA code may be in raw text format or compiled [using
the “sxc” libshare compiler].
When publishing a new class, the name of the class must be unique.
A fee will be charged based on the size of the underlying payload.
The executable extended transaction will be signed against the
account’s unique execution sender address.
The underlying script used for the executable extended
transaction, when creating a new class, has the following format:
OP_EXT_NEW &lt;&lt; OP_N(OP_EXEC) &lt;&lt; OP_HASH160 &lt;&lt;
[EXEC HASH] &lt;&lt; OP_2DROP &lt;&lt; OP_RETURN
The [EXEC HASH] is the has of the underlying CExec strucuture that
comprises the payload of the extended transaction (see BIP 7).
=== Calling a Class Method ===
A new transaction is generated on the shioncoin blockchain that
supplies the method and parameters being called. All nodes will
execute the same method and arguments when this class is being
referenced. A checksum is supplied in order to ensure that the
resulting permanent storage area associated with the class has is
consistent on all server nodes. 

The extended transaction operation OP_EXT_GENERATE is used in
order to indicate a class method is being called, and is comprised of
the following format:
OP_EXT_UPDATE &lt;&lt; OP_N(OP_EXEC) &lt;&lt; OP_HASH160 &lt;&lt;
[EXEC HASH] &lt;&lt; OP_2DROP &lt;&lt; OP_RETURN
The node calling the class method must ensure that a high enough
fee is being provided or an error may be returned. Execution of class
methods that do not require altering the permanent storage area used
by the class do not endure any fee, and are not recorded on the
shioncoin blockchain. 

The SEXE class identifies each caller by the sending coin address
that supplies the fee to run the execution. It is therefore necessary
to use a unique address per account when executing a class method. 

A particular class is not executed on a node until it is needed
due to a user attempting to call a class method. Pending execution of
method calls on the blockchain, that have not already been performed,
are performed in sequence [as they reside on the blockchain] before
attempting to execute a new class method call.
