<pre class="western">  SIP: 3
  Layer: Core
  Title: Transaction Certification
  Author: Neo Natura &lt; support@neo-natura.com &gt;
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2018-12-29</pre>
==Abstract== 
This SIP defines a new structure called a "certificate"
that is committed to blocks as an extended transaction. 

The certificate extended transaction provides a means to certify
credentials. 

==Motivation== 
The certification of auxiliary information provides a method to
track identity association and provide credentials to third-party
software. 

==Specifications== 
The Certification of a transaction is performed by creating chains
of extended transactions which utilize an "Ident" structure
or a "Certificate" structure (see below). 

Several other extended transactions utilize the "Ident"
or "Certificate" extended transaction structure as a base. 

===Structure=== 
The "Ident" extended structure consists of the
following; 

<pre class="western">        {
                /* A geodetic location. */
                shgeo_t geo;
                /* A coin address key. */
                cbuff vAddr;
                /* A mode indicator. */
                unsigned int nType;
        }</pre>
The "Certificate" extended structure is a extension of the
"Ident" structure which includes the following; 

<pre class="western">        {
                /* A reference to a parent record. */
                uint160 hashIssuer;
                /* A signature generated from the underlying transaction. */
                CSign signature;
                /* A free-form data pay-load. */
                cbuff vContext;
                /* The fee charged to derive this certificate. */
                int64 nFee;
                /* An attribute modifier. */
                int nFlag;
        }</pre>
===Usage=== 
An "Ident" by itself can be embedded into a "transfer
funds" operation as part of a certified send or by "stamping"
some auxiliary information. 

The "Certificate" structure is used by certificates,
licenses, and assets. Typically, a chain authority certificate is
generated and then derived certificates are assigned for auxiliary
purposes. 

A license differs, in that, it can be derived from a suitable
certificate, with a optional fee, without the consent of the owner. 

An asset is derived from a certificate, and provides a 4k payload
of information referencing a tangible asset. 

