<pre class="western">  SIP: 32
  Layer: Consensus (soft fork)
  Title: SIP32 Multiple PoW Algorythm
  Author: Brian Burrell &lt; support@neo-natura.com &gt;
  Status: Proposed
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2019-04-20</pre>
==Abstract== 
The SIP introduces a method to allow for additional PoW algorithms
to be performed on the Shioncoin blockchain. 

==Motivation== 
Currently, only scrypt based mining hardware may be used in order
to commit blocks to the Shioncoin blockchain. By allowing for
multiple PoW algorithms to be used on the same blockchain, the burden
of having to purchase specific mining equipment is lessened in favor
of a more flexible software design. In addition, optional support for
particular PoW algorithms on the Shioncoin colored alt-chains
provides a means to further personalize their attributes. The
algorithms that have been initially selected are based on either
simplicity of design (for ASIC compatibility), SHA-3 competitiveness
(for proven reliability), or broadness of usability (for popularity).

==Specification== 
Additional PoW algorithm validation is provided by specifying a
custom block version and by computing the difficulty in a predefined
per algorithm ratio against the native scrypt difficulty. A 16-bit
bitvector is added to the constant 0xE0000000UL in order to establish
a block version to indicate which algorithm is being used. As such,
consensus or versionbits cannot be specified when submitting a block
with a PoW algorithm besides scrypt. 

The initial algorithms to be provided on the mainnet blockchain,
as part of a deployment consensus, are as follows: 
* SHA256D
* KECCAK
* X11
* BLAKE2S
* QUBIT
* GROESTL
* SKEIN
Each colored alt-chain can be configured (upon it's genesis) to
support, in addition to scrypt, the SHA256D, KECCAK, X11, and/or
BLAKE2S PoW algorithms. Colored alt-chains do not require a consensus
to use this functionality, but nodes cannot access an alt-chain which
has options that are unsupported. Each algorithm is defined a
hard-coded hash speed ratio in comparison to scrypt. 

Only algorithms that have a faster hashing speed than scrypt are
supported by this implementation. Note that the merkleroot for all
PoW algorithms listed is generated using a traditional double-sha256
hash instead of the more complicated scrypt method. Segregated
witness merkle root hashes are computed the same for all algorithms.
All difficulties displayed through stratum or RPC are still shown in
comparison to scrypt. 

The block's "nBits" (compacted minimum difficulty) will
reference the underlying PoW algorithm used. Shioncoin uses the
Kimoto Gravity Well to determine the difficulty rate of newly
generated blocks. When the difficulty of the next block is computed,
the first block processed will be the last block in the chain that
has been committed for the particular PoW algorithm desired to be
submitted. As such, the time since the last block with the same PoW
algorithm committed to the blockchain is used in order to determine
the difficulty. Only the first block is filtered in this manner. 

The remainder of the previous chain blocks used to compute the
difficulty will be processed; regardless of their underlying
associated PoW algorithm. The minimum difficulty is used if a block
with that PoW algorithm has never been committed. 

