
<pre class="western">  SIP: 34
  Layer: Consensus (soft fork)
  Title: ShionID Digital Credential
  Author: Brian Burrell &lt; support@neo-natura.com &gt;
  Status: Extensionable
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2020-05-05</pre>
==Abstract== 
The SIP introduces a specific type of context which can be used in order to accmodate user credential registration with third-party vendors.

==Motivation== 
Currently, web sites require a registration process in order to collect an identifier, a passphrase, and personal information.

The ShionID context combines a hashed email address identifier, for privacy, with a crypted passphrase in order to allow for immediate identification of an individual. In addition, common profile information can also be associated.

Combining this information, in a public accessible manner with prudent exposure to personal information, provides the ability for a person to login into a supported website and have the registration process be performed immediately. In other words, the person would not need to registrer their account for first-time use, and instead the website would rely on Shioncoin blockchain context information in order to identify the user with an email address, initial passphrase, and misc profile information.

From a user perspective, they simply login using their pre-established ShionID email address and password -- as if they had previously registered with the site or interface.

Additional required field gathering or consent may still be required in order to complete the registration in some cases (depending on web site or third-party interface's actual requirements).

==Specification== 
The ShionID uses a Shioncoin Context extended transaction with a label prefix of "id:" in order to indicate it's application.

The label of the context is in the format: "id:<sha256 of email>"

Verification of whether a ShionID exists is comprised of performing a sha256 hash on the email and prepending the "id:" prefix, and then querying it from the context records on the Shioncoin blockchain. 

The value of the ShionID context is composed of a JSON object.

The password is crypted using the PBKDF2 algorithm (HMAC SHA256) with the token name "crypted_password" and value in the following format: "sha256:<iter>:<salt>:<hash>"

===Profile Tokens===
Each token name and token value is limited to 135 maximum characters. 

All profile token are optional.

Here is a list of common tokens:
	geo; A \"<lat>,<lon>\" value referencing a general location.
	country; A country code (\"US\") referencing residence.
	zipcode; A postal zipcode.
	website; An associated web site.
	name; An organization or real person name.
	nickname; An alternate personal name.
	gender; A 'M' for male or 'F' for female.
	birthdate; Year of birth.
	zoneinfo; A timezone locale (\"America/Denver\")

Custom profile tokens are permitted.

==Interfacing==
For convienence, the "ctx.setid", "ctx.getid", and "ctx.listid" RPC commands are provided. The "ctx.listid" can be used by a script to store information into a database.

The SHAPI service interface provides the api methods "api.context.setid", "api.context.getid", and "api.context.listid" which exhibit similar functionality to the RPC commands specified above.

==Alternative Usage==
It is not mandatory that the ShionID profile be used specifically for login or registration purposes. 

Notice should be taken that the ShionID is limited to using an email address identifier for a key per it's standard use. A non-email identifier, such as a pre-established ID or username, can be used providing it's understood it will only be available for specific cases that expect a non-email identiier.

Additional hash algorithms besides sha256 may be incorporated as standard practice in a future implementation.
