<pre class="western">  SIP: 33
  Layer: Consensus (soft fork)
  Title: Dilithium Coin Address Signature
  Author: Neo Natura &lt; support@neo-natura.com &gt;
  Status: Proposed
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2019-08-30</pre>
==Abstract== 
The SIP introduces a method to allow for a new pubkey coin address
which can contain a dilithium-based signature. 

==Motivation== 
Currently, coin addresses in standardized virtual currencies rely
upon the ECDSA signature method. This has been deemed insufficient in
the eventual introduction of quantum computing. A quantum-safe
signature method, dilithium, is proposed to be used as an
configurable alternative. 

The usage and methodology of the signing process is consistent
with ECDSA. A pubkey is about 2.5k bytes and signature is also about
2.5k. The dilithium signing method is proposed to exclusively use the
signature witness method having the affect of the longer signature
not costing an additional tx fee. 

==Specification== 
The introduction of a new signing method implies the ability to
handle multiple types of pubkey and signature data on the blockchain.
The existing script operation OP_CHECKSIG is enhanced to verify
against a dilithium signature when the dilithium witness version (14)
is set. 

The manner in which pubkey and script IDs is consistent with
regular transactions. The witness v0 method is essentially identical
to the dilithium witness program except that is verified using the
dilithium-3 algorithm and that the public key and signature
components of the segwit signature are larger in size. Note that the
dilithium-3 signature, which is 2701, exceeds the traditional script
maximum element size of 520 bytes. 

The dilithium public key, stored in the wallet and used in
transactions, is prefixed with a single byte set to the constants
0x3. This single-byte prefix is embedded for future extensions. Using
the set of script ops above, the sender will include a keyid (28
bytes) and the receiver will include the full pubkey and signature. 

The new signature method is exclusively isolated to a single
witness program. The witness program version "14" is
utilized in order to distinguish a dilithium signed transaction.
Given a 20-byte key ID; a witness v14 destination address script
would be "0x14 ". This is interpreted equivalent to a
"OP_HASH160 OP_EQUALVERIFY" with the witness version being
set to 14. 

Note that a traditional witness script is not utilized (due to
exclusive bech32 method). In addition, the signing method is reserved
for use with the bech32 address format. As the bech32 specifies a
particular witness program version, a receiver coin address can be
specified that implies the signature will be stored on the segwit
portion of the transaction (no counted against total block size) and
that a dilithium algorithm must be used in order to verify the
transaction as an subsequent input. 

==Deriving HD Keys== 
The implementation includes a HD (bip32) chain in order to derive
dilithium based coin addresses. Each account is provided a master key
which uses a standard "hd key path" method in order to
provide derived keys for use with each user account. 

