<pre class="western">  SIP: 4
  Layer: Core
  Title: Alternate Blockchain (Extended Transaction)
  Author: Brian Burrell &lt; support@neo-natura.com &gt;
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2018-12-29</pre>
==Abstract== 
This SIP defines a new transaction which is capable of tracking an
alternate block-chain. 

The alternate blockchain extended transaction stores the block
header and the individual transactions associated. 

==Motivation== 
By providing a method to track an alternate blockchain it becomes
possible to create "colored" chains which can have
independent value, purpose, and blockchain parameters. 

== Implementation == 
The alternate blockchain extended transaction is built on top of
the standard extended transaction structure. 

A 32-bit color code identifies each individual block-chain. 

Each altchain transaction holds a block header and a set of
transactions. 

A standard block header structure is used: 

<pre class="western">  unsigned int nFlag;

  uint256 hashPrevBlock;

  uint256 hashMerkleRoot;

  unsigned int nTime;

  unsigned int nBits;

  unsigned int nNonce;</pre>
Followed by one or more transactions with the following structure: 

<pre class="western">unsigned int nFlag;
std::vector vin;
std::vector vout;
unsigned int nLockTime;
cbuff vchAux;</pre>
The "vchAux" variable is a proprietary packet of
information that is optionally defined and used by the developer of
the particular alternate blockchain. Segregated witness operations
are not supported for the alternate blockchain extended transaction. 

All coinbase transactions include a BIP39 input which encapsulates
the block height of the block being generated. 

=== New Chain === 
A new chain is created using the OP_EXT_NEW opcode. 

The coinbase consists of an "OP_RETURN 0x0" output
script with an output coin value determined by the underlying "reward
value" blockchain parameter provided. Parameters are appended
after the "OP_RETURN 0x0" is the format "&lt; mode &gt;
&lt; value &gt;" where &lt; mode &gt; is a 8-bit number
representing the parameter and &lt; value &gt; consisting of a 8-bit
code. 

The blockchain parameters provided are beyond the scope of this
document. 

=== Update Chain === 
Supplemental blocks are appended to the chain, for the particular
color specified, using the OP_EXT_UPDATE opcode. 

