<pre>
  SIP: 6
  Layer: Core
  Title: Coin Address Alias (Extended Transaction)
  Author: Brian Burrell <bburrell@neo-natura.com>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/neonatura/shioncoin/doc/standards/Comments:sip6.wiki
  Status: Final
  Type: Informational
  Created: 2018-12-29
  License: PD
</pre>

== Abstract ==
This document introduces the ability to associate a string based label which references a ShionCoin coin address.

== Motivation ==
Having a string based alias for a ShionCoin coin address provides a means to supply a human-digestable label to what is otherwise an arbitrary code. 

Public entities, such as a store-front, can assign a label to an address in order to broadcast a receiving address and/or provide other facilities that can be associated with a coin address.

== Usage ==
The coin alias functionality is utilized by a sharecoin node by providing a means to replace references to a coin address with a alias name prepended by an ampersand (@).

== Specification ==
The alias extended transaction structure is an extension of the "Ident" certificate structure. The alias transaction provides a label of up to 135 characters which references a ShionCoin coin address. 

The alias is defined as having a "type" which indicates what type of coin address is being referenced. 

An coin address alias can be created, update, and removed. Each alias has a life-span of 12 years past when it was created or the last time it was updated.

== Examples ==
For example, sending funds to another address:

<small>wallet.send bank @AliasName 5.5</small>

==Copyright==
This document is placed in the public domain.
