<pre class="western">  SIP: 7 
  Layer: Core
  Title: Executable (Extended Transaction)
  Author: Neo Natura &lt; support@neo-natura.com &gt;
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2018-12-29</pre>
== Abstract == 
This proposal introduces the ability to create executable calls
based on applications published to the ShionCoin block-chain. See
SIP26 for a more comprehensive guide on the how a ShionCoin node
processes application calls. 

== Motivation == 
The Executable Extended Transaction provides the base structure
for publishing and executing calls. 

== Specification == 
The executable extended transaction is composed of the following
structure:
<pre class="western">{
    /* the originating address of the transaction. */
    uint160 kSender;
    /* the executable code of a SEXE class. */
    cbuff vContext;
    /* a signature certifying the primary contents of the exec/call. */
    CSign signature;
    /* the system time at which the call was initiated. */
    int64 nTime;
    /* the blockchain height at which the call was initiated. */
    int64 nHeight;
    /* the coin value sent to process the method call. */
    int64 nValue;
    /* a hash of the result returned from the method call. */
    uint64 hResult;
    /* the SEXE executable class. */
    uint160 hExec;
    /* the previous call hash */
    uint160 hPrev;
    /* a checksum hash of the class's user-data. */
    uint256 hData;
    /* the name of the method called. */
    cbuff vchMethod;
    /* the arguments passed into the class method. */
    vector vArg;
    /* a list of transactions generated by this exec call. */
    vector vTx;
}</pre>
An executable transaction is composed of either a OP_EXT_NEW or a
OP_EXT_GENERATE operation. A OP_EXT_NEW operation publishes a new set
of executable code to the ShionCoin block-chain. 

The executable code may be in text or binary format. Published
executable code will expire after 48 years. 

An OP_EXT_GENERATE operation registers that a call was performed
into a particular application. 

The maximum size of the executable code payload is 780,000 bytes. 

