<pre>
  SIP: 8 
  Layer: Core
  Title: Ident (Extended Transaction)
  Author: Brian Burrell <bburrell@neo-natura.com>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/neonatura/shioncoin/doc/standards/Comments:sip8.wiki
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2018-12-29
  License: PD
</pre>

==Abstract==
This SIP defines a new "Ident" extended transaction. 

The ident extended transaction is used in order to certify the originating sender of funds or other auxilliary information.

==Motivation==
The ident extended transaction is intended to provide a method for third-party application to verify the originating identify of funds being sent. 

In addition, the transaction may be used in order to "stamp" auxiliary information onto the block-chain. This can include general information or something more specialized like a geodetic address.

==Specifications==

The Certification of a transaction is performed by creating chains of extended transactions which utilize an "Ident" structure or a "Certificate" structure (see below).

Several other extended transactions utilize the "Ident" or "Certificate" extended transaction structure as a base. 

===Structure===
The "Ident" extended structure consists of the following;
<pre>
	{
		/* A geodetic location. */
		shgeo_t geo;
		/* A coin address key. */
		cbuff vAddr;
		/* A mode indicator. */
		unsigned int nType;
	}
</pre>


===Usage===

A "Certified Funds Transfer" is comprised of a regular fund send transaction with the addition of a "Ident" extended transaction.

The ident extended transaction optionally tracks the geodetic location of the originating node server, and a payload of textual information up to 135 characters.

An ident transaction can specify a geodetic location by using the format "geo:latitude,longitude" where latitude and longitude are in decimal degrees format.

See SIP21 for additional usage of ident extended transactions utilizing geodetic locations. 

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
