.TH "Libshare_syspam" 3 "8 May 2015" "Version 2.26" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_syspam \- 
.PP
Permission access management.  

.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshadow_t\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHPAM_DELETE\fP   (1 << 0)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHPAM_EXPIRE\fP   (1 << 1)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHPAM_LOCK\fP   (1 << 2)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHPAM_STATUS\fP   (1 << 3)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHPAM_SESSION\fP   (1 << 4)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHPAM_UNLOCK\fP   (1 << 5)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHPAM_UPDATE\fP   (1 << 6)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHPAM_CREATE\fP   (1 << 7)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef struct \fBshadow_t\fP \fBshadow_t\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "uint64_t \fBshpam_uid\fP (char *username)"
.br
.RI "\fIA unique reference to a share account. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshkey_t\fP * \fBshpam_ident_gen\fP (uint64_t uid, \fBshpeer_t\fP *peer)"
.br
.RI "\fIAn identity key referencing an account for an application. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshkey_t\fP * \fBshpam_ident_root\fP (\fBshpeer_t\fP *peer)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe 'root' identity for an application. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshpam_ident_verify\fP (\fBshkey_t\fP *id_key, uint64_t uid, \fBshpeer_t\fP *peer)"
.br
.RI "\fIVerify that an identity key references an application account. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshkey_t\fP * \fBshpam_sess_gen\fP (\fBshkey_t\fP *pass_key, \fBshtime_t\fP stamp, \fBshkey_t\fP *id_key)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshpam_sess_verify\fP (\fBshkey_t\fP *sess_key, \fBshkey_t\fP *pass_key, \fBshtime_t\fP stamp, \fBshkey_t\fP *id_key)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "uint64_t \fBshpam_salt\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIGenerate a random salt to be used to perterb a password key. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint64_t \fBshpam_salt_gen\fP (unsigned char *data, size_t data_len)"
.br
.RI "\fIGenerate a key salt from the data content provided. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "const char * \fBshpam_username_sys\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe current user's system account name. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshseed_t\fP * \fBshpam_pass_gen\fP (char *username, char *passphrase, uint64_t salt)"
.br
.RI "\fIGenerate a password seed from the username, passphrase, and salt provided. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshseed_t\fP * \fBshpam_pass_sys\fP (char *username)"
.br
.RI "\fIGenerate a password seed from the system login username specified. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshpam_pass_verify\fP (\fBshseed_t\fP *seed, char *username, char *passphrase)"
.br
.RI "\fIVerify a password seed references a username and password. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Permission access management. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshkey_t\fP* shpam_ident_gen (uint64_t uid, \fBshpeer_t\fP * peer)"
.PP
An identity key referencing an account for an application. 
.SS "\fBshkey_t\fP* shpam_ident_root (\fBshpeer_t\fP * peer)"
.PP
The 'root' identity for an application. 
.SS "int shpam_ident_verify (\fBshkey_t\fP * id_key, uint64_t uid, \fBshpeer_t\fP * peer)"
.PP
Verify that an identity key references an application account. 
.SS "\fBshseed_t\fP* shpam_pass_gen (char * username, char * passphrase, uint64_t salt)"
.PP
Generate a password seed from the username, passphrase, and salt provided. 
.SS "\fBshseed_t\fP* shpam_pass_sys (char * username)"
.PP
Generate a password seed from the system login username specified. 
.SS "int shpam_pass_verify (\fBshseed_t\fP * seed, char * username, char * passphrase)"
.PP
Verify a password seed references a username and password. 
.SS "uint64_t shpam_salt (void)"
.PP
Generate a random salt to be used to perterb a password key. 
.SS "uint64_t shpam_salt_gen (unsigned char * data, size_t data_len)"
.PP
Generate a key salt from the data content provided. 
.SS "uint64_t shpam_uid (char * username)"
.PP
A unique reference to a share account. 
.SS "const char* shpam_username_sys (void)"
.PP
The current user's system account name. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
