.TH "Libshare_fsjournal" 3 "8 May 2015" "Version 2.26" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fsjournal \- 
.PP
Partition journal management.  

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshfs_journal_path\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree, int index)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe local file-system path where a sharefs journal is stored. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_journal_t\fP * \fBshfs_journal_open\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree, int index)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns an instance to a sharefs filesystem journal. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_journal_scan\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree, \fBshkey_t\fP *key, \fBshfs_idx_t\fP *idx)"
.br
.RI "\fISearch for the first empty inode entry in a journal. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_journal_close\fP (\fBshfs_journal_t\fP **jrnl_p)"
.br
.RI "\fIRelease all resources being used to reference a shared partition journal. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_block_t\fP * \fBshfs_journal_block\fP (\fBshfs_journal_t\fP *jrnl, int ino)"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve an inode block from a journal. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBshfs_journal_size\fP (\fBshfs_journal_t\fP *jrnl)"
.br
.RI "\fICalculates the byte size of a sharefs partition journal. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBshfs_journal_cache_free\fP (\fBshfs_t\fP *tree)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Partition journal management. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshfs_block_t\fP* shfs_journal_block (\fBshfs_journal_t\fP * jrnl, int ino)"
.PP
Retrieve an inode block from a journal. 
.SS "int shfs_journal_close (\fBshfs_journal_t\fP ** jrnl_p)"
.PP
Release all resources being used to reference a shared partition journal. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIjrnl_p\fP A reference to the journal. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
A zero (0) on success and a negative error code on failure. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBshfs_journal_t\fP* shfs_journal_open (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree, int index)"
.PP
Returns an instance to a sharefs filesystem journal. 
.SS "char* shfs_journal_path (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree, int index)"
.PP
The local file-system path where a sharefs journal is stored. 
.SS "int shfs_journal_scan (\fBshfs_t\fP * tree, \fBshkey_t\fP * key, \fBshfs_idx_t\fP * idx)"
.PP
Search for the first empty inode entry in a journal. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItree\fP The sharefs filesystem partition. 
.br
\fIkey\fP The token name of the inode being referenced. 
.br
\fIidx\fP The index number of the journal. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
A inode index number or zero (0) on failure. 
.RE
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Inode index #0 is reserved for system use. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "size_t shfs_journal_size (\fBshfs_journal_t\fP * jrnl)"
.PP
Calculates the byte size of a sharefs partition journal. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
