.TH "Libshare_fslink" 3 "8 May 2015" "Version 2.26" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fslink \- 
.PP
Directory container inode management.  

.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshfs_dirent_t\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef struct \fBshfs_dirent_t\fP \fBshfs_dirent_t\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_link\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *parent, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.RI "\fILink a child inode inside a parent's directory listing. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_link_find\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *parent, \fBshkey_t\fP *key, \fBshfs_block_t\fP *ret_blk)"
.br
.RI "\fIFind an inode in it's parent using it's key name. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_link_count\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *parent)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain the number of inode's contained by a parent. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_list\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *parent, \fBshfs_dirent_t\fP **dirent_p)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain a list of inode's contained by the parent. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBshfs_list_free\fP (\fBshfs_dirent_t\fP **ent_p)"
.br
.RI "\fIFrees a list of directory entries. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Directory container inode management. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int shfs_link (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * parent, \fBshfs_ino_t\fP * inode)"
.PP
Link a child inode inside a parent's directory listing. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
The birth timestamp and token key is assigned on link. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "int shfs_link_count (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * parent)"
.PP
Obtain the number of inode's contained by a parent. 
.SS "int shfs_link_find (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * parent, \fBshkey_t\fP * key, \fBshfs_block_t\fP * ret_blk)"
.PP
Find an inode in it's parent using it's key name. 
.SS "int shfs_list (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * parent, \fBshfs_dirent_t\fP ** dirent_p)"
.PP
Obtain a list of inode's contained by the parent. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIparent\fP The inode to list the contents of. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The number of directory entries returned or a negative libshare error code. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "void shfs_list_free (\fBshfs_dirent_t\fP ** ent_p)"
.PP
Frees a list of directory entries. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIent_p\fP A reference to the array of entries. 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
