.TH "Libshare_fsattr" 3 "8 May 2015" "Version 2.26" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fsattr \- 
.PP
Inode attributes.  

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_access_read\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshkey_t\fP *id_key)"
.br
.RI "\fICheck whether a user has read permission to an inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_access_write\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshkey_t\fP *id_key)"
.br
.RI "\fICheck whether a user has write permission to an inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_access_exec\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshkey_t\fP *id_key)"
.br
.RI "\fICheck whether a user has exec permission to an inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_access_owner_set\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshkey_t\fP *id_key)"
.br
.RI "\fISet the owner of a file to an identity key. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshkey_t\fP * \fBshfs_access_owner_get\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file)"
.br
.RI "\fIGet a file owner's identity key. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshfs_attr_label\fP (int attr_idx)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_attr_t\fP \fBshfs_block_attr\fP (\fBshfs_block_t\fP *blk)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_attr_t\fP \fBshfs_attr\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *inode)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshfs_attr_str\fP (\fBshfs_attr_t\fP attr)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_attr_set\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, int attr)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_attr_unset\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, int attr)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_cred_store\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshkey_t\fP *key, unsigned char *data, size_t data_len)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_cred_load\fP (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP *file, \fBshkey_t\fP *key, unsigned char *data, size_t max_len)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Inode attributes. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int shfs_access_exec (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, \fBshkey_t\fP * id_key)"
.PP
Check whether a user has exec permission to an inode. 
.SS "\fBshkey_t\fP* shfs_access_owner_get (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file)"
.PP
Get a file owner's identity key. 
.SS "int shfs_access_owner_set (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, \fBshkey_t\fP * id_key)"
.PP
Set the owner of a file to an identity key. 
.SS "int shfs_access_read (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, \fBshkey_t\fP * id_key)"
.PP
Check whether a user has read permission to an inode. 
.SS "int shfs_access_write (\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * file, \fBshkey_t\fP * id_key)"
.PP
Check whether a user has write permission to an inode. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
