.TH "Libshare_fsstream" 3 "8 May 2015" "Version 2.26" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fsstream \- 
.PP
Posix stdio oriented stream IO on sharefs files.  

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBSHFL\fP * \fBshfopen\fP (const char *path, const char *mode, \fBshfs_t\fP *fs)"
.br
.RI "\fIOpen a sharefs file inode for stream-based I/O. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfclose\fP (\fBSHFL\fP *fp)"
.br
.RI "\fIClose a previously opened stream-based file reference. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "ssize_t \fBshfread\fP (void *ptr, size_t size, size_t nmemb, \fBSHFL\fP *stream)"
.br
.RI "\fIBuffered read of an inode's data stream. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBshfwrite\fP (const void *ptr, size_t size, size_t nmemb, \fBSHFL\fP *stream)"
.br
.RI "\fIBuffered write of an inode's data stream. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfseek\fP (\fBSHFL\fP *stream, size_t offset, int whence)"
.br
.RI "\fISets the file position indicator for the stream pointed to by stream. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBshftell\fP (\fBSHFL\fP *stream)"
.br
.RI "\fIObtain the current position of a file stream. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBSHFL\fP * \fBshfmemopen\fP (void *buf, size_t size, const char *mode)"
.br
.RI "\fIOpens a memory stream. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Posix stdio oriented stream IO on sharefs files. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int shfclose (\fBSHFL\fP * fp)"
.PP
Close a previously opened stream-based file reference. 
.SS "\fBSHFL\fP* shfmemopen (void * buf, size_t size, const char * mode)"
.PP
Opens a memory stream. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fImode\fP The I/O access level - i.e. 'r' read, 'w' write, 'a' append 
.br
\fIbuf\fP The memory segment to perform stream I/O on. 
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
fmemopen() 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBSHFL\fP* shfopen (const char * path, const char * mode, \fBshfs_t\fP * fs)"
.PP
Open a sharefs file inode for stream-based I/O. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIfs\fP The sharefs partition or NULL for default. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "ssize_t shfread (void * ptr, size_t size, size_t nmemb, \fBSHFL\fP * stream)"
.PP
Buffered read of an inode's data stream. 
.SS "int shfseek (\fBSHFL\fP * stream, size_t offset, int whence)"
.PP
Sets the file position indicator for the stream pointed to by stream. \fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
fseek() 
.RE
.PP

.SS "size_t shftell (\fBSHFL\fP * stream)"
.PP
Obtain the current position of a file stream. 
.SS "size_t shfwrite (const void * ptr, size_t size, size_t nmemb, \fBSHFL\fP * stream)"
.PP
Buffered write of an inode's data stream. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
