.TH "Libshare_fsmem" 3 "8 May 2015" "Version 2.26" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Libshare_fsmem \- 
.PP
local hard-disk memory I/O  

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_mem_read\fP (char *path, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff)"
.br
.RI "\fIRead a file from the local filesystem into a memory buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_read_mem\fP (char *path, char **data_p, size_t *data_len_p)"
.br
.RI "\fIRead a file from the local filesystem into memory. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_mem_write\fP (char *path, \fBshbuf_t\fP *buff)"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite a file from a memory buffer to the local filesystem. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBshfs_write_mem\fP (char *path, void *data, size_t data_len)"
.br
.RI "\fIWrite a file from memory to the local filesystem. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
local hard-disk memory I/O 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int shfs_mem_read (char * path, \fBshbuf_t\fP * buff)"
.PP
Read a file from the local filesystem into a memory buffer. 
.SS "int shfs_mem_write (char * path, \fBshbuf_t\fP * buff)"
.PP
Write a file from a memory buffer to the local filesystem. 
.SS "int shfs_read_mem (char * path, char ** data_p, size_t * data_len_p)"
.PP
Read a file from the local filesystem into memory. 
.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBshkeystore.c\fP.
.SS "int shfs_write_mem (char * path, void * data, size_t data_len)"
.PP
Write a file from memory to the local filesystem. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
