.TH "shfs_t" 3 "8 May 2015" "Version 2.26" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shfs_t \- 
.PP
The sharefs filesystem structure.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shfs.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBflags\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe flags associated with the sharefs partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshpeer_t\fP \fBpeer\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe machine related to the sharefs inode's partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBbase_ino\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIWorking root directory. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBfsbase_ino\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIRoot directory. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void * \fBjcache\fP [16]"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
The sharefs filesystem structure. 

\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
See also: \fC\fBshfs_ino_t\fP\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
.PP
\fBshkeystore.c\fP.
.PP
Definition at line 719 of file shfs.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* \fBshfs_t::base_ino\fP"
.PP
Working root directory. \fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
shchroot() 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 735 of file shfs.h.
.SS "int \fBshfs_t::flags\fP"
.PP
The flags associated with the sharefs partition. 
.PP
Definition at line 723 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* \fBshfs_t::fsbase_ino\fP"
.PP
Root directory. 
.PP
Definition at line 740 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshpeer_t\fP \fBshfs_t::peer\fP"
.PP
The machine related to the sharefs inode's partition. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
This variable is not saved as part of the fileystem inode. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 729 of file shfs.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
