.TH "shjson_t" 3 "8 May 2015" "Version 2.26" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shjson_t \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshjson_t\fP * \fBnext\fP"
.br
.RI "\fInext/prev allow you to walk array/object chains. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshjson_t\fP * \fBprev\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshjson_t\fP * \fBchild\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAn array or object item will have a child pointer pointing to a chain of the items in the array/object. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBtype\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe type of the item, as above. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBvaluestring\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe item's string, if type==shjson_String. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBvalueint\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe item's number, if type==shjson_Number. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBvaluedouble\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe item's number, if type==shjson_Number. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBstring\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe item's name string, if this item is the child of, or is in the list of subitems of an object. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Definition at line 956 of file shmem.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "struct \fBshjson_t\fP* \fBshjson_t::child\fP\fC [read]\fP"
.PP
An array or object item will have a child pointer pointing to a chain of the items in the array/object. 
.PP
Definition at line 961 of file shmem.h.
.SS "struct \fBshjson_t\fP* \fBshjson_t::next\fP\fC [read]\fP"
.PP
next/prev allow you to walk array/object chains. Alternatively, use GetArraySize/GetArrayItem/GetObjectItem 
.PP
Definition at line 958 of file shmem.h.
.SS "char* \fBshjson_t::string\fP"
.PP
The item's name string, if this item is the child of, or is in the list of subitems of an object. 
.PP
Definition at line 974 of file shmem.h.
.SS "int \fBshjson_t::type\fP"
.PP
The type of the item, as above. 
.PP
Definition at line 964 of file shmem.h.
.SS "double \fBshjson_t::valuedouble\fP"
.PP
The item's number, if type==shjson_Number. 
.PP
Definition at line 971 of file shmem.h.
.SS "int \fBshjson_t::valueint\fP"
.PP
The item's number, if type==shjson_Number. 
.PP
Definition at line 969 of file shmem.h.
.SS "char* \fBshjson_t::valuestring\fP"
.PP
The item's string, if type==shjson_String. 
.PP
Definition at line 967 of file shmem.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
