.TH "tx_metric_msg_t" 3 "8 May 2015" "Version 2.26" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
tx_metric_msg_t \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBmet_type\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe type of metric (SHMETRIC_XX). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBmet_flags\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIType specific flags for the metric instance. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBmet_name\fP [8]"
.br
.RI "\fIA self-identifying sub-type of the metric. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshtime_t\fP \fBmet_expire\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe time-stamp of when the metric expires. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint64_t \fBmet_acc\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe account being referenced. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Definition at line 249 of file shnet.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "uint64_t \fBtx_metric_msg_t::met_acc\fP"
.PP
The account being referenced. 
.PP
Definition at line 263 of file shnet.h.
.SS "\fBshtime_t\fP \fBtx_metric_msg_t::met_expire\fP"
.PP
The time-stamp of when the metric expires. 
.PP
Definition at line 260 of file shnet.h.
.SS "uint32_t \fBtx_metric_msg_t::met_flags\fP"
.PP
Type specific flags for the metric instance. 
.PP
Definition at line 254 of file shnet.h.
.SS "char \fBtx_metric_msg_t::met_name\fP[8]"
.PP
A self-identifying sub-type of the metric. 
.PP
Definition at line 257 of file shnet.h.
.SS "uint32_t \fBtx_metric_msg_t::met_type\fP"
.PP
The type of metric (SHMETRIC_XX). 
.PP
Definition at line 251 of file shnet.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
